First off its very easy to use.
The file is located in ./ForgeEssentials/banneditems.cfg
If you wish to ban the crafting of an item you place the item "id:meta" under "S:List" in the #nocraft section. pretty self explanatory.

Now say you didn't want anyone on your server to be able to craft some items. For this example were going to use a TNT (id=46) and a Chunk Loader(id=243). We will also show you how to ban all variants of an item/block. For that we will use a Mining Laser(id=30208:1 and 30208:27). You have 2 meta's for the mining laser for charged and uncharged so to be safe we ban them both by using "-1" to ban them all in one line.
lets see what this looks like in the cfg.

    ####################
    # nocraft
    #===================
    # Configuration options to make an item uncraftable.
    ####################
    nocraft {
        # Use this format: "id:meta". Use meta -1 to ban ALL variants of an item/block.
        S:List <
            243
            46
            30208:-1
         >



# NO-USE CONFIGURATIONS ARE NOW OBSOLETE! SEE THE PROTECTION MODULE!

Now we have the nocraft down, lets take a look at the nouse.
This will allow the player to have or craft the item but will block the use of the right/left clicks or placement of the block. I will use TnT again(id=46) for this example. Say you wanted your players to be able to acquire this item for use in crafting or some other need but its also a destructive item that may bypass protections you set so you want to block this from being placed in your world. You would use the nouse ban.
Lets have a look at what this might look like in the cfg.

    ####################
    # nouse
    #===================
    # Configuration options to make an item unusable.
    ####################
    nouse {
        # Use this format: "id:meta". Use meta -1 to ban ALL variants of an item/block.
        S:List <
            46
         >
    }
